Ranton, will you come forward now and tell about remembering Ranton?
My grandfather, Morgan Williams, I can hear the way they pronounce it now, came from Mercer-Tidfill and he came to Pennsylvania.
The only instructions he had was, find Mr. Davies.
Well, he found Mr. Davies and Mr. Davies decided to come on to Tacoma, Washington to work in the coal mines.
When my grandfather was situated at Burnett, which was a little railroad stop, he brought over his wife and five children from Wales.
There were four boys and a girl, Hannah, Richard, Thomas, David, and Gomer, my father.
Now, if you think that isn't fun to look this all up in a genealogy record, well, you know what that's like.
I want to stop at this time and introduce to you Richard's daughter, Delia.
Delia.
Well, two years later, Morgan died of pneumonia and was buried in Carbonado.
The boys went to work in the mines and at an early age and the family survived.
Now, picture their miners caps and lamps and their black faces and the shining white of their eyes.
My other grandfather, Calvin Benton, from whom I got my name, came from the silver mines of Colorado to supervise the sluicing down a beacon hill to form Harbor Island.
His daughter, Julia, and my father, Gomer, were married and settled in Renton.
I was born in 1914 during the World War I and placed in a shoebox.
At that time, the Renton coal mine, where my dad worked, was owned by the Strain family, who owned a Stanley steamer automobile.
Besides making a home, my mother played the piano for the silent films, she said, sometimes holding me on her lap.
My dad favored the audience with a song or a clarinet solo at intermission.
Picture Renton's wooden buildings, boardwalks, and muddy streets at that time.
The mine was located at the edge of the valley a mile south of town and I attended the Henry Ford School nearby.
The Benson Road now goes over the mine entrance just south of where 405 makes its turn against the East Hill.
There, on the valley floor, was a huge slag heap that we could look down on from our home in the hill.
As a preschooler, I could watch the trams crawling up the slag mountain to dump its load.
The mine whistle announced the hours and I called it a foo-foo. My mother and dad were quite proud of that.
I especially remember it on November 11th, 1918, as it celebrated the Armistice.
The slag mountain has since been removed and now in its place one finds that transformer power station down there in Renton.
The mine tunnels were lit with carbide lamps and burrowed under the East Hill where we lived.
Our gang of young boys would explore the woods and find the air shafts, or cave-ins as we call them, that lead down into the damp tunnels.
And we would dare one another to climb down into them.
Sometimes a steamy, smelly gas would come out and we would cringe back in horror.
Picture all those residences on the East Hill, honeycomb with tunnels under them.
The Elf Club, for example.
I'm not making this up, you know.
My dad got himself out of the mines by becoming a motorman on an interurban that operated between Seattle, Tacoma, and Everett with a spur line that came into Renton.
His brother worked on the Puget Sound, I think Bill called it, Puget, what do you call it? Pacific Coast Railroad, right, that hauled the coal around the area.
As with many Welsh, they came to America to escape the unemployment then developing in the Ronsa Valley.
And they expected to settle in Welsh communities to enjoy their Calvinist religion and Welsh culture.
But it wasn't to be.
The Welsh found that they had to get along with all the other ethnic groups as well, you see.
So, I can still remember a little Welsh girl that helped with long division in the grade school.
And I can remember Mr. Crawford's Presbyterian Church where we went to play in the orchestra.
And I can remember Reverend Green's Methodist Church where I went to Sunday school.
And Thomas Harry, the postmaster who taught me Sunday school lessons and how to get merit badges.
And, well, let's see, I remember 1929 when that all came to an end. Thank you.